
Part i

Optimism Within


Could we choose our environment, and were desire in human undertakings
synonymous with endowment, all men would, I suppose, be optimists.
Certainly most of us regard happiness as the proper end of all earthly
enterprise. The will to be happy animates alike the philosopher, the
prince and the chimney-sweep. No matter how dull, or how mean, or how
wise a man is, he feels that happiness is his indisputable right.

It is curious to observe what different ideals of happiness people
cherish, and in what singular places they look for this well-spring of
their life. Many look for it in the hoarding of riches, some in the
pride of power, and others in the achievements of art and literature;
a few seek it in the exploration of their own minds, or in the search
for knowledge.

Most people measure their happiness in terms of physical pleasure and
material possession. Could they win some visible goal which they have
set on the horizon, how happy they would be! Lacking this gift or that
circumstance, they would be miserable. If happiness is to be so
measured, I who cannot hear or see have every reason to sit in a
corner with folded hands and weep. If I am happy in spite of my
deprivations, if my happiness is so deep that it is a faith, so
thoughtful that it becomes a philosophy of life,--if, in short, I am
an optimist, my testimony to the creed of optimism is worth hearing.
As sinners stand up in meeting and testify to the goodness of God, so
one who is called afflicted may rise up in gladness of conviction and
testify to the goodness of life.

Once I knew the depth where no hope was, and darkness lay on the face
of all things. Then love came and set my soul free. Once I knew only
darkness and stillness. Now I know hope and joy. Once I fretted and
beat myself against the wall that shut me in. Now I rejoice in the
consciousness that I can think, act and attain heaven. My life was
without past or future; death, the pessimist would say, “a
consummation devoutly to be wished.” But a little word from the
fingers of another fell into my hand that clutched at emptiness, and
my heart leaped to the rapture of living. Night fled before the day
of thought, and love and joy and hope came up in a passion of
obedience to knowledge. Can anyone who has escaped such captivity, who
has felt the thrill and glory of freedom, be a pessimist?

My early experience was thus a leap from bad to good. If I tried, I
could not check the momentum of my first leap out of the dark; to move
breast forward is a habit learned suddenly at that first moment of
release and rush into the light. With the first word I used
intelligently, I learned to live, to think, to hope. Darkness cannot
shut me in again. I have had a glimpse of the shore, and can now live
by the hope of reaching it.

So my optimism is no mild and unreasoning satisfaction. A poet once
said I must be happy because I did not see the bare, cold present, but
lived in a beautiful dream. I do live in a beautiful dream; but that
dream is the actual, the present,--not cold, but warm; not bare, but
furnished with a thousand blessings. The very evil which the poet
supposed would be a cruel disillusionment is necessary to the fullest
knowledge of joy. Only by contact with evil could I have learned to
feel by contrast the beauty of truth and love and goodness.

It is a mistake always to contemplate the good and ignore the evil,
because by making people neglectful it lets in disaster. There is a
dangerous optimism of ignorance and indifference. It is not enough to
say that the twentieth century is the best age in the history of
mankind, and to take refuge from the evils of the world in skyey
dreams of good. How many good men, prosperous and contented, looked
around and saw naught but good, while millions of their fellowmen were
bartered and sold like cattle! No doubt, there were comfortable
optimists who thought Wilberforce a meddlesome fanatic when he was
working with might and main to free the slaves. I distrust the rash
optimism in this country that cries, “Hurrah, we’re all right! This is
the greatest nation on earth,” when there are grievances that call
loudly for redress. That is false optimism. Optimism that does not
count the cost is like a house builded on sand. A man must understand
evil and be acquainted with sorrow before he can write himself an
optimist and expect others to believe that he has reason for the faith
that is in him.

I know what evil is. Once or twice I have wrestled with it, and for a
time felt its chilling touch on my life; so I speak with knowledge
when I say that evil is of no consequence, except as a sort of mental
gymnastic. For the very reason that I have come in contact with it, I
am more truly an optimist. I can say with conviction that the struggle
which evil necessitates is one of the greatest blessings. It makes us
strong, patient, helpful men and women. It lets us into the soul of
things and teaches us that although the world is full of suffering, it
is full also of the overcoming of it. My optimism, then, does not rest
on the absence of evil, but on a glad belief in the preponderance of
good and a willing effort always to coöperate with the good, that it
may prevail. I try to increase the power God has given me to see the
best in everything and every one, and make that Best a part of my
life. The world is sown with good; but unless I turn my glad thoughts
into practical living and till my own field, I cannot reap a kernel of
the good.

Thus my optimism is grounded in two worlds, myself and what is about
me. I demand that the world be good, and lo, it obeys. I proclaim the
world good, and facts range themselves to prove my proclamation
overwhelmingly true. To what is good I open the doors of my being, and
jealously shut them against what is bad. Such is the force of this
beautiful and wilful conviction, it carries itself in the face of all
opposition. I am never discouraged by absence of good. I never can be
argued into hopelessness. Doubt and mistrust are the mere panic of
timid imagination, which the steadfast heart will conquer, and the
large mind transcend.

As my college days draw to a close, I find myself looking forward with
beating heart and bright anticipations to what the future holds of
activity for me. My share in the work of the world may be limited; but
the fact that it is work makes it precious. Nay, the desire and will
to work is optimism itself.

Two generations ago Carlyle flung forth his gospel of work. To the
dreamers of the Revolution, who built cloud-castles of happiness, and,
when the inevitable winds rent the castles asunder, turned
pessimists--to those ineffectual Endymions, Alastors and Werthers,
this Scots peasant, man of dreams in the hard, practical world, cried
aloud his creed of labor. “Be no longer a Chaos, but a World. Produce!
produce! Were it but the pitifullest infinitesimal fraction of a
product, produce it, in God’s name! ’Tis the utmost thou hast in thee;
out with it, then. Up, up! whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it
with thy whole might. Work while it is called To-day; for the Night
cometh wherein no man may work.”

Some have said Carlyle was taking refuge from a hard world by bidding
men grind and toil, eyes to the earth, and so forget their misery.
This is not Carlyle’s thought. “Fool!” he cries, “the Ideal is in
thyself; the Impediment is also in thyself. Work out the Ideal in the
poor, miserable Actual; live, think, believe, and be free!” It is
plain what he says, that work, production, brings life out of chaos,
makes the individual a world, an order; and order is optimism.

I, too, can work, and because I love to labor with my head and my
hands, I am an optimist in spite of all. I used to think I should be
thwarted in my desire to do something useful. But I have found out
that though the ways in which I can make myself useful are few, yet
the work open to me is endless. The gladdest laborer in the vineyard
may be a cripple. Even should the others outstrip him, yet the
vineyard ripens in the sun each year, and the full clusters weigh
into his hand. Darwin could work only half an hour at a time; yet in
many diligent half-hours he laid anew the foundations of philosophy. I
long to accomplish a great and noble task; but it is my chief duty and
joy to accomplish humble tasks as though they were great and noble. It
is my service to think how I can best fulfil the demands that each day
makes upon me, and to rejoice that others can do what I cannot. Green,
the historian,[1] tells us that the world is moved along, not only by
the mighty shoves of its heroes, but also by the aggregate of the tiny
pushes of each honest worker; and that thought alone suffices to guide
me in this dark world and wide. I love the good that others do; for
their activity is an assurance that whether I can help or not, the
true and the good will stand sure.

    [1] Life and Letters of John Richard Green. Edited by Leslie Stephen.

I trust, and nothing that happens disturbs my trust. I recognize the
beneficence of the power which we all worship as supreme--Order, Fate,
the Great Spirit, Nature, God. I recognize this power in the sun that
makes all things grow and keeps life afoot. I make a friend of this
indefinable force, and straightway I feel glad, brave and ready for
any lot Heaven may decree for me. This is my religion of optimism.




Part ii. Optimism Without

[Illustration]




Part ii

Optimism Without


Optimism, then, is a fact within my own heart. But as I look out upon
life, my heart meets no contradiction. The outward world justifies my
inward universe of good. All through the years I have spent in
college, my reading has been a continuous discovery of good. In
literature, philosophy, religion and history I find the mighty
witnesses to my faith.

Philosophy is the history of a deaf-blind person writ large. From the
talks of Socrates up through Plato, Berkeley and Kant, philosophy
records the efforts of human intelligence to be free of the clogging
material world and fly forth into a universe of pure idea. A
deaf-blind person ought to find special meaning in Plato’s Ideal
World. These things which you see and hear and touch are not the
reality of realities, but imperfect manifestations of the Idea, the
Principle, the Spiritual; the Idea is the truth, the rest is delusion.

If this be so, my brethren who enjoy the fullest use of the senses are
not aware of any reality which may not equally well be in reach of my
mind. Philosophy gives to the mind the prerogative of seeing truth,
and bears us into a realm where I, who am blind, am not different from
you who see. When I learned from Berkeley that your eyes receive an
inverted image of things which your brain unconsciously corrects, I
began to suspect that the eye is not a very reliable instrument after
all, and I felt as one who had been restored to equality with others,
glad, not because the senses avail them so little, but because in
God’s eternal world, mind and spirit avail so much. It seemed to me
that philosophy had been written for my special consolation, whereby I
get even with some modern philosophers who apparently think that I was
intended as an experimental case for their special instruction! But in
a little measure my small voice of individual experience does join in
the declaration of philosophy that the good is the only world, and
that world is a world of spirit. It is also a universe where order is
All, where an unbroken logic holds the parts together, where disorder
defines itself as non-existence, where evil, as St. Augustine held, is
delusion, and therefore is not.

The meaning of philosophy to me is not only in its principles, but
also in the happy isolation of its great expounders. They were seldom
of the world, even when like Plato and Leibnitz they moved in its
courts and drawing-rooms. To the tumult of life they were deaf, and
they were blind to its distraction and perplexing diversities. Sitting
alone, but not in darkness, they learned to find everything in
themselves, and failing to find it even there, they still trusted in
meeting the truth face to face when they should leave the earth behind
and become partakers in the wisdom of God. The great mystics lived
alone, deaf and blind, but dwelling with God.

I understand how it was possible for Spinoza to find deep and
sustained happiness when he was excommunicated, poor, despised and
suspected alike by Jew and Christian; not that the kind world of men
ever treated me so, but that his isolation from the universe of
sensuous joys is somewhat analogous to mine. He loved the good for its
own sake. Like many great spirits he accepted his place in the world,
and confided himself childlike to a higher power, believing that it
worked through his hands and predominated in his being. He trusted
implicitly, and that is what I do. Deep, solemn optimism, it seems to
me, should spring from this firm belief in the presence of God in the
individual; not a remote, unapproachable governor of the universe, but
a God who is very near every one of us, who is present not only in
earth, sea and sky, but also in every pure and noble impulse of our
hearts, “the source and centre of all minds, their only point of
rest.”

Thus from philosophy I learn that we see only shadows and know only
in part, and that all things change; but the mind, the unconquerable
mind, compasses all truth, embraces the universe as it is, converts
the shadows to realities and makes tumultuous changes seem but moments
in an eternal silence, or short lines in the infinite theme of
perfection, and the evil but “a halt on the way to good.” Though with
my hand I grasp only a small part of the universe, with my spirit I
see the whole, and in my thought I can compass the beneficent laws by
which it is governed. The confidence and trust which these conceptions
inspire teach me to rest safe in my life as in a fate, and protect me
from spectral doubts and fears. Verily, blessed are ye that have not
seen, and yet have believed.

All the world’s great philosophers have been lovers of God and
believers in man’s inner goodness. To know the history of philosophy
is to know that the highest thinkers of the ages, the seers of the
tribes and the nations, have been optimists.

The growth of philosophy is the story of man’s spiritual life. Outside
lies that great mass of events which we call History. As I look on
this mass, I see it take form and shape itself in the ways of God. The
history of man is an epic of progress. In the world within and the
world without I see a wonderful correspondence, a glorious symbolism
which reveals the human and the divine communing together, the lesson
of philosophy repeated in fact. In all the parts that compose the
history of mankind hides the spirit of good, and gives meaning to the
whole.

Far back in the twilight of history I see the savage fleeing from the
forces of nature which he has not learned to control, and seeking to
propitiate supernatural beings which are but the creation of his
superstitious fear. With a shift of imagination I see the savage
emancipated, civilized. He no longer worships the grim deities of
ignorance. Through suffering he has learned to build a roof over his
head, to defend his life and his home, and over his state he has
erected a temple in which he worships the joyous gods of light and
song. From suffering he has learned justice; from the struggle with
his fellows he has learned the distinction between right and wrong
which makes him a moral being. He is gifted with the genius of Greece.

But Greece was not perfect. Her poetical and religious ideals were far
above her practice; therefore she died, that her ideals might survive
to ennoble coming ages.

Rome, too, left the world a rich inheritance. Through the
vicissitudes of history her laws and ordered government have stood a
majestic object-lesson for the ages. But when the stern, frugal
character of her people ceased to be the bone and sinew of her
civilization, Rome fell.

Then came the new nations of the North and founded a more permanent
society. The base of Greek and Roman society was the slave, crushed
into the condition of the wretches who “labored, foredone, in the
field and at the workshop, like haltered horses, if blind, so much the
quieter.” The base of the new society was the freeman who fought,
tilled, judged and grew from more to more. He wrought a state out of
tribal kinship and fostered an independence and self-reliance which no
oppression could destroy. The story of man’s slow ascent from savagery
through barbarism and self-mastery to civilization is the embodiment
of the spirit of optimism. From the first hour of the new nations each
century has seen a better Europe, until the development of the world
demanded America.

Tolstoi said the other day that America, once the hope of the world,
was in bondage to Mammon. Tolstoi and other Europeans have still much
to learn about this great, free country of ours before they understand
the unique civic struggle which America is undergoing. She is
confronted with the mighty task of assimilating all the foreigners
that are drawn together from every country, and welding them into one
people with one national spirit. We have the right to demand the
forbearance of critics until the United States has demonstrated
whether she can make one people out of all the nations of the earth.
London economists are alarmed at less than five hundred thousand
foreign-born in a population of six million, and discuss earnestly the
danger of too many aliens. But what is their problem in comparison
with that of New York, which counts nearly one million five hundred
thousand foreigners among its three and a half million citizens? Think
of it! Every third person in our American metropolis is an alien. By
these figures alone America’s greatness can be measured.

It is true, America has devoted herself largely to the solution of
material problems--breaking the fields, opening mines, irrigating
deserts, spanning the continent with railroads; but she is doing these
things in a new way, by educating her people, by placing at the
service of every man’s need every resource of human skill. She is
transmuting her industrial wealth into the education of her workmen,
so that unskilled people shall have no place in American life, so that
all men shall bring mind and soul to the control of matter. Her
children are not drudges and slaves. The Constitution has declared it,
and the spirit of our institutions has confirmed it. The best the land
can teach them they shall know. They shall learn that there is no
upper class in their country, and no lower, and they shall understand
how it is that God and His world are for everybody.

America might do all this, and still be selfish, still be a worshipper
of Mammon. But America is the home of charity as well as of commerce.
In the midst of roaring traffic, side by side with noisy factory and
sky-reaching warehouse, one sees the school, the library, the
hospital, the park-works of public benevolence which represent wealth
wrought into ideas that shall endure forever. Behold what America has
already done to alleviate suffering and restore the afflicted to
society--given sight to the fingers of the blind, language to the dumb
lip, and mind to the idiot clay, and tell me if indeed she worships
Mammon only. Who shall measure the sympathy, skill and intelligence
with which she ministers to all who come to her, and lessens the
ever-swelling tide of poverty, misery and degradation which every year
rolls against her gates from all the nations?

When I reflect on all these facts, I cannot but think that, Tolstoi
and other theorists to the contrary, it is a splendid thing to be an
American. In America the optimist finds abundant reason for confidence
in the present and hope for the future, and this hope, this
confidence, may well extend over all the great nations of the earth.

If we compare our own time with the past, we find in modern statistics
a solid foundation for a confident and buoyant world-optimism. Beneath
the doubt, the unrest, the materialism, which surround us still glows
and burns at the world’s best life a steadfast faith. To hear the
pessimist, one would think civilization had bivouacked in the Middle
Ages, and had not had marching orders since. He does not realize that
the progress of evolution is not an uninterrupted march.

    “Now touching goal, now backward hurl’d,
    Toils the indomitable world.”

I have recently read an address by one whose knowledge it would be
presumptuous to challenge.[2] In it I find abundant evidence of
progress.

    [2] Address by the Hon. Carroll D. Wright before the
    Unitarian Conference, September, 1903.

During the past fifty years crime has decreased. True, the records of
to-day contain a longer list of crime. But our statistics are more
complete and accurate than the statistics of times past. Besides,
there are many offences on the list which half a century ago would not
have been thought of as crimes. This shows that the public conscience
is more sensitive than it ever was.

Our definition of crime has grown stricter, our punishment of it more
lenient and intelligent. The old feeling of revenge has largely
disappeared. It is no longer an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
The criminal is treated as one who is diseased. He is confined not
merely for punishment, but because he is a menace to society. While he
is under restraint, he is treated with humane care and disciplined so
that his mind shall be cured of its disease, and he shall be restored
to society able to do his part of its work.

Another sign of awakened and enlightened public conscience is the
effort to provide the working-class with better houses. Did it occur
to any one a hundred years ago to think whether the dwellings of the
poor were sanitary, convenient or sunny? Do not forget that in the
“good old times” cholera and typhus devastated whole counties, and
that pestilence walked abroad in the capitals of Europe.

Not only have our laboring-classes better houses and better places to
work in; but employers recognize the right of the employed to seek
more than the bare wage of existence. In the darkness and turmoil of
our modern industrial strifes we discern but dimly the principles that
underlie the struggle. The recognition of the right of all men to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, a spirit of conciliation
such as Burke dreamed of, the willingness on the part of the strong
to make concessions to the weak, the realization that the rights of
the employer are bound up in the rights of the employed--in these the
optimist beholds the signs of our times.

Another right which the State has recognized as belonging to each man
is the right to an education. In the enlightened parts of Europe and
in America every city, every town, every village, has its school; and
it is no longer a class who have access to knowledge, for to the
children of the poorest laborer the school-door stands open. From the
civilized nations universal education is driving the dull host of
illiteracy.

Education broadens to include all men, and deepens to reach all
truths. Scholars are no longer confined to Greek, Latin and
mathematics, but they also study science; and science converts the
dreams of the poet, the theory of the mathematician and the fiction of
the economist into ships, hospitals and instruments that enable one
skilled hand to perform the work of a thousand. The student of to-day
is not asked if he has learned his grammar. Is he a mere
grammar-machine, a dry catalogue of scientific facts, or has he
acquired the qualities of manliness? His supreme lesson is to grapple
with great public questions, to keep his mind hospitable to new ideas
and new views of truth, to restore the finer ideals that are lost
sight of in the struggle for wealth and to promote justice between man
and man. He learns that there may be substitutes for human
labor--horse-power and machinery and books; but “there are no
substitutes for common sense, patience, integrity, courage.”

Who can doubt the vastness of the achievements of education when one
considers how different the condition of the blind and the deaf is
from what it was a century ago? They were then objects of
superstitious pity, and shared the lowest beggar’s lot. Everybody
looked upon their case as hopeless, and this view plunged them deeper
in despair. The blind themselves laughed in the face of Haüy when he
offered to teach them to read. How pitiable is the cramped sense of
imprisonment in circumstances which teaches men to expect no good and
to treat any attempt to relieve them as the vagary of a disordered
mind! But now, behold the transformation; see how institutions and
industrial establishments for the blind have sprung up as if by magic;
see how many of the deaf have learned not only to read and write, but
to speak; and remember that the faith and patience of Dr. Howe have
borne fruit in the efforts that are being made everywhere to educate
the deaf-blind and equip them for the struggle. Do you wonder that I
am full of hope and lifted up?

The highest result of education is tolerance. Long ago men fought and
died for their faith; but it took ages to teach them the other kind of
courage,--the courage to recognize the faiths of their brethren and
their rights of conscience. Tolerance is the first principle of
community; it is the spirit which conserves the best that all men
think. No loss by flood and lightning, no destruction of cities and
temples by the hostile forces of nature, has deprived man of so many
noble lives and impulses as those which his intolerance has destroyed.

With wonder and sorrow I go back in thought to the ages of
intolerance and bigotry. I see Jesus received with scorn and nailed
on the cross. I see his followers hounded and tortured and burned. I
am present where the finer spirits that revolt from the superstition
of the Middle Ages are accused of impiety and stricken down. I behold
the children of Israel reviled and persecuted unto death by those who
pretend Christianity with the tongue; I see them driven from land to
land, hunted from refuge to refuge, summoned to the felon’s place,
exposed to the whip, mocked as they utter amid the pain of martyrdom a
confession of the faith which they have kept with such splendid
constancy. The same bigotry that oppresses the Jews falls tiger-like
upon Christian nonconformists of purest lives and wipes out the
Albigenses and the peaceful Vaudois, “whose bones lie on the mountains
cold.” I see the clouds part slowly, and I hear a cry of protest
against the bigot. The restraining hand of tolerance is laid upon the
inquisitor, and the humanist utters a message of peace to the
persecuted. Instead of the cry, “Burn the heretic!” men study the
human soul with sympathy, and there enters into their hearts a new
reverence for that which is unseen.

The idea of brotherhood redawns upon the world with a broader
significance than the narrow association of members in a sect or
creed; and thinkers of great soul like Lessing challenge the world to
say which is more godlike, the hatred and tooth-and-nail grapple of
conflicting religions, or sweet accord and mutual helpfulness. Ancient
prejudice of man against his brother-man wavers and retreats before
the radiance of a more generous sentiment, which will not sacrifice
men to forms, or rob them of the comfort and strength they find in
their own beliefs. The heresy of one age becomes the orthodoxy of the
next. Mere tolerance has given place to a sentiment of brotherhood
between sincere men of all denominations. The optimist rejoices in the
affectionate sympathy between Catholic heart and Protestant heart
which finds a gratifying expression in the universal respect and warm
admiration for Leo XIII on the part of good men the world over. The
centenary celebrations of the births of Emerson and Channing are
beautiful examples of the tribute which men of all creeds pay to the
memory of a pure soul.

Thus in my outlook upon our times I find that I am glad to be a
citizen of the world, and as I regard my country, I find that to be an
American is to be an optimist. I know the unhappy and unrighteous
story of what has been done in the Philippines beneath our flag; but I
believe that in the accidents of statecraft the best intelligence of
the people sometimes fails to express itself. I read in the history of
Julius Cæsar that during the civil wars there were millions of
peaceful herdsmen and laborers who worked as long as they could, and
fled before the advance of the armies that were led by the few, then
waited until the danger was past, and returned to repair damages with
patient hands. So the people are patient and honest, while their
rulers stumble. I rejoice to see in the world and in this country a
new and better patriotism than that which seeks the life of an enemy.
It is a patriotism higher than that of the battle-field. It moves
thousands to lay down their lives in social service, and every life so
laid down brings us a step nearer the time when corn-fields shall no
more be fields of battle. So when I heard of the cruel fighting in the
Philippines, I did not despair, because I knew that the hearts of our
people were not in that fight, and that sometime the hand of the
destroyer must be stayed.




Part iii. The Practice of Optimism

[Illustration]




Part iii

The Practice of Optimism


The test of all beliefs is their practical effect in life. If it be
true that optimism compels the world forward, and pessimism retards
it, then it is dangerous to propagate a pessimistic philosophy. One
who believes that the pain in the world outweighs the joy, and
expresses that unhappy conviction, only adds to the pain. Schopenhauer
is an enemy to the race. Even if he earnestly believed that this is
the most wretched of possible worlds, he should not promulgate a
doctrine which robs men of the incentive to fight with circumstance.
If Life gave him ashes for bread, it was his fault. Life is a fair
field, and the right will prosper if we stand by our guns.

Let pessimism once take hold of the mind, and life is all topsy-turvy,
all vanity and vexation of spirit. There is no cure for individual or
social disorder, except in forgetfulness and annihilation. “Let us
eat, drink and be merry,” says the pessimist, “for to-morrow we die.”
If I regarded my life from the point of view of the pessimist, I
should be undone. I should seek in vain for the light that does not
visit my eyes and the music that does not ring in my ears. I should
beg night and day and never be satisfied. I should sit apart in awful
solitude, a prey to fear and despair. But since I consider it a duty
to myself and to others to be happy, I escape a misery worse than any
physical deprivation.

Who shall dare let his incapacity for hope or goodness cast a shadow
upon the courage of those who bear their burdens as if they were
privileges? The optimist cannot fall back, cannot falter; for he knows
his neighbor will be hindered by his failure to keep in line. He will
therefore hold his place fearlessly and remember the duty of silence.
Sufficient unto each heart is its own sorrow. He will take the iron
claws of circumstance in his hand and use them as tools to break away
the obstacles that block his path. He will work as if upon him alone
depended the establishment of heaven on earth.

We have seen that the world’s philosophers--the Sayers of the
Word--were optimists; so also are the men of action and
achievement--the Doers of the Word. Dr. Howe found his way to Laura
Bridgman’s soul because he began with the belief that he could reach
it. English jurists had said that the deaf-blind were idiots in the
eyes of the law. Behold what the optimist does. He controverts a hard
legal axiom; he looks behind the dull impassive clay and sees a human
soul in bondage, and quietly, resolutely sets about its deliverance.
His efforts are victorious. He creates intelligence out of idiocy and
proves to the law that the deaf-blind man is a responsible being.

When Haüy offered to teach the blind to read, he was met by pessimism
that laughed at his folly. Had he not believed that the soul of man is
mightier than the ignorance that fetters it, had he not been an
optimist, he would not have turned the fingers of the blind into new
instruments. No pessimist ever discovered the secrets of the stars, or
sailed to an uncharted land, or opened a new heaven to the human
spirit. St. Bernard was so deeply an optimist that he believed two
hundred and fifty enlightened men could illuminate the darkness which
overwhelmed the period of the Crusades; and the light of his faith
broke like a new day upon western Europe. John Bosco, the benefactor
of the poor and the friendless of Italian cities, was another
optimist, another prophet who, perceiving a Divine Idea while it was
yet afar, proclaimed it to his countrymen. Although they laughed at
his vision and called him a madman, yet he worked on patiently, and
with the labor of his hands he maintained a home for little street
waifs. In the fervor of enthusiasm he predicted the wonderful movement
which should result from his work. Even in the days before he had
money or patronage, he drew glowing pictures of the splendid system of
schools and hospitals which should spread from one end of Italy to
the other, and he lived to see the organization of the San Salvador
Society, which was the embodiment of his prophetic optimism. When Dr.
Seguin declared his opinion that the feeble-minded could be taught,
again people laughed, and in their complacent wisdom said he was no
better than an idiot himself. But the noble optimist persevered, and
by and by the reluctant pessimists saw that he whom they ridiculed had
become one of the world’s philanthropists. Thus the optimist believes,
attempts, achieves. He stands always in the sunlight. Some day the
wonderful, the inexpressible, arrives and shines upon him, and he is
there to welcome it. His soul meets his own and beats a glad march to
every new discovery, every fresh victory over difficulties, every
addition to human knowledge and happiness.

We have found that our great philosophers and our great men of action
are optimists. So, too, our most potent men of letters have been
optimists in their books and in their lives. No pessimist ever won an
audience commensurately wide with his genius, and many optimistic
writers have been read and admired out of all measure to their
talents, simply because they wrote of the sunlit side of life.
Dickens, Lamb, Goldsmith, Irving, all the well-beloved and gentle
humorists, were optimists. Swift, the pessimist, has never had as many
readers as his towering genius should command, and indeed, when he
comes down into our century and meets Thackeray, that generous
optimist can hardly do him justice. In spite of the latter-day
notoriety of the “Rubáiyát” of Omar Khayyám, we may set it down as a
rule that he who would be heard must be a believer, must have a
fundamental optimism in his philosophy. He may bluster and disagree
and lament as Carlyle and Ruskin do sometimes; but a basic confidence
in the good destiny of life and of the world must underlie his work.

Shakespeare is the prince of optimists. His tragedies are a revelation
of moral order. In “Lear” and “Hamlet” there is a looking forward to
something better, some one is left at the end of the play to right
wrong, restore society and build the state anew. The later plays, “The
Tempest” and “Cymbeline,” show a beautiful, placid optimism which
delights in reconciliations and reunions and which plans for the
triumph of external as well as internal good.

If Browning were less difficult to read, he would surely be the
dominant poet in this century. I feel the ecstasy with which he
exclaims, “Oh, good gigantic smile o’ the brown old earth this autumn
morning!” And how he sets my brain going when he says, because there
is imperfection, there must be perfection; completeness must come of
incompleteness; failure is an evidence of triumph for the fulness of
the days. Yes, discord is, that harmony may be; pain destroys, that
health may renew; perhaps I am deaf and blind that others likewise
afflicted may see and hear with a more perfect sense! From Browning I
learn that there is no lost good, and that makes it easier for me to
go at life, right or wrong, do the best I know, and fear not. My heart
responds proudly to his exhortation to pay gladly life’s debt of pain,
darkness and cold. Lift up your burden, it is God’s gift, bear it
nobly.

The man of letters whose voice is to prevail must be an optimist, and
his voice often learns its message from his life. Stevenson’s life has
become a tradition only ten years after his death; he has taken his
place among the heroes, the bravest man of letters since Johnson and
Lamb. I remember an hour when I was discouraged and ready to falter.
For days I had been pegging away at a task which refused to get itself
accomplished. In the midst of my perplexity I read an essay of
Stevenson which made me feel as if I had been “outing” in the
sunshine, instead of losing heart over a difficult task. I tried again
with new courage and succeeded almost before I knew it. I have failed
many times since; but I have never felt so disheartened as I did
before that sturdy preacher gave me my lesson in the “fashion of the
smiling face.”

Read Schopenhauer and Omar, and you will grow to find the world as
hollow as they find it. Read Green’s history of England, and the world
is peopled with heroes. I never knew why Green’s history thrilled me
with the vigor of romance until I read his biography. Then I learned
how his quick imagination transfigured the hard, bare facts of life
into new and living dreams. When he and his wife were too poor to have
a fire, he would sit before the unlit hearth and pretend that it was
ablaze. “Drill your thoughts,” he said; “shut out the gloomy and call
in the bright. There is more wisdom in shutting one’s eyes than your
copybook philosophers will allow.”

Every optimist moves along with progress and hastens it, while every
pessimist would keep the world at a standstill. The consequence of
pessimism in the life of a nation is the same as in the life of the
individual. Pessimism kills the instinct that urges men to struggle
against poverty, ignorance and crime, and dries up all the fountains
of joy in the world. In imagination I leave the country which lifts up
the manhood of the poor and I visit India, the underworld of
fatalism--where three hundred million human beings, scarcely men,
submerged in ignorance and misery, precipitate themselves still deeper
into the pit. Why are they thus? Because they have for thousands of
years been the victims of their philosophy, which teaches them that
men are as grass, and the grass fadeth, and there is no more greenness
upon the earth. They sit in the shadow and let the circumstances they
should master grip them, until they cease to be Men, and are made to
dance and salaam like puppets in a play. After a little hour death
comes and hurries them off to the grave, and other puppets with other
“pasteboard passions and desires” take their place, and the show goes
on for centuries.

Go to India and see what sort of civilization is developed when a
nation lacks faith in progress and bows to the gods of darkness. Under
the influence of Brahminism genius and ambition have been suppressed.
There is no one to befriend the poor or to protect the fatherless and
the widow. The sick lie untended. The blind know not how to see, nor
the deaf to hear, and they are left by the roadside to die. In India
it is a sin to teach the blind and the deaf because their affliction
is regarded as a punishment for offences in a previous state of
existence. If I had been born in the midst of these fatalistic
doctrines, I should still be in darkness, my life a desert-land where
no caravan of thought might pass between my spirit and the world
beyond.

The Hindoos believe in endurance, but not in resistance; therefore
they have been subdued by strangers. Their history is a repetition of
that of Babylon. A nation from afar came with speed swiftly, and none
stumbled, or slept, or slumbered, but they brought desolation upon the
land, and took the stay and the staff from the people, the whole stay
of bread, and the whole stay of water, the mighty man, and the man of
war, the judge, and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient, and
none delivered them. Woe, indeed, is the heritage of those who walk
sad-thoughted and downcast through this radiant, soul-delighting
earth, blind to its beauty and deaf to its music, and of those who
call evil good, and good evil, and put darkness for light, and light
for darkness.

What care the weather-bronzed sons of the West, feeding the world
from the plains of Dakota, for the Omars and the Brahmins? They would
say to the Hindoos, “Blot out your philosophy, dead for a thousand
years, look with fresh eyes at Reality and Life, put away your
Brahmins and your crooked gods, and seek diligently for Vishnu the
Preserver.”

Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement; nothing can be done
without hope. When our forefathers laid the foundation of the American
commonwealths, what nerved them to their task but a vision of a free
community? Against the cold, inhospitable sky, across the wilderness
white with snow, where lurked the hidden savage, gleamed the bow of
promise, toward which they set their faces with the faith that levels
mountains, fills up valleys, bridges rivers and carries civilization
to the uttermost parts of the earth. Although the pioneers could not
build according to the Hebraic ideal they saw, yet they gave the
pattern of all that is most enduring in our country to-day. They
brought to the wilderness the thinking mind, the printed book, the
deep-rooted desire for self-government and the English common law that
judges alike the king and the subject, the law on which rests the
whole structure of our society.

It is significant that the foundation of that law is optimistic. In
Latin countries the court proceeds with a pessimistic bias. The
prisoner is held guilty until he is proved innocent. In England and
the United States there is an optimistic presumption that the accused
is innocent until it is no longer possible to deny his guilt. Under
our system, it is said, many criminals are acquitted; but it is surely
better so than that many innocent persons should suffer. The
pessimist cries, “There is no enduring good in man! The tendency of
all things is through perpetual loss to chaos in the end. If there was
ever an idea of good in things evil, it was impotent, and the world
rushes on to ruin.” But behold, the law of the two most sober-minded,
practical and law-abiding nations on earth assumes the good in man and
demands a proof of the bad.

Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. The prophets of the
world have been of good heart, or their standards would have stood
naked in the field without a defender. Tolstoi’s strictures lose power
because they are pessimistic. If he had seen clearly the faults of
America, and still believed in her capacity to overcome them, our
people might have felt the stimulation of his censure. But the world
turns its back on a hopeless prophet and listens to Emerson who takes
into account the best qualities of the nation and attacks only the
vices which no one can defend or deny. It listens to the strong man,
Lincoln, who in times of doubt, trouble and need does not falter. He
sees success afar, and by strenuous hope, by hoping against hope,
inspires a nation. Through the night of despair he says, “All is
well,” and thousands rest in his confidence. When such a man censures,
and points to a fault, the nation obeys, and his words sink into the
ears of men; but to the lamentations of the habitual Jeremiah the ear
grows dull.

Our newspapers should remember this. The press is the pulpit of the
modern world, and on the preachers who fill it much depends. If the
protest of the press against unrighteous measures is to avail, then
for ninety-nine days the word of the preacher should be buoyant and of
good cheer, so that on the hundredth day the voice of censure may be
a hundred times strong. This was Lincoln’s way. He knew the people; he
believed in them and rested his faith on the justice and wisdom of the
great majority. When in his rough and ready way he said, “You can’t
fool all the people all the time,” he expressed a great principle, the
doctrine of faith in human nature.

The prophet is not without honor, save he be a pessimist. The ecstatic
prophecies of Isaiah did far more to restore the exiles of Israel to
their homes than the lamentations of Jeremiah did to deliver them from
the hands of evil-doers.

Even on Christmas Day do men remember that Christ came as a prophet of
good? His joyous optimism is like water to feverish lips, and has for
its highest expression the eight beatitudes. It is because Christ is
an optimist that for ages he has dominated the Western world. For
nineteen centuries Christendom has gazed into his shining face and
felt that all things work together for good. St. Paul, too, taught the
faith which looks beyond the hardest things into the infinite horizon
of heaven, where all limitations are lost in the light of perfect
understanding. If you are born blind, search the treasures of
darkness. They are more precious than the gold of Ophir. They are love
and goodness and truth and hope, and their price is above rubies and
sapphires.

Jesus utters and Paul proclaims a message of peace and a message of
reason, a belief in the Idea, not in things, in love, not in conquest.
The optimist is he who sees that men’s actions are directed not by
squadrons and armies, but by moral power, that the conquests of
Alexander and Napoleon are less abiding than Newton’s and Galileo’s
and St. Augustine’s silent mastery of the world. Ideas are mightier
than fire and sword. Noiselessly they propagate themselves from land
to land, and mankind goes out and reaps the rich harvest and thanks
God; but the achievements of the warrior are like his canvas city,
“to-day a camp, to-morrow all struck and vanished, a few pit-holes and
heaps of straw.” This was the gospel of Jesus two thousand years ago.
Christmas Day is the festival of optimism.

Although there are still great evils which have not been subdued, and
the optimist is not blind to them, yet he is full of hope. Despondency
has no place in his creed, for he believes in the imperishable
righteousness of God and the dignity of man. History records man’s
triumphant ascent. Each halt in his progress has been but a pause
before a mighty leap forward. The time is not out of joint. If indeed
some of the temples we worshipped in have fallen, we have built new
ones on the sacred sites loftier and holier than those which have
crumbled. If we have lost some of the heroic physical qualities of our
ancestors, we have replaced them with a spiritual nobleness that turns
aside wrath and binds up the wounds of the vanquished. All the past
attainments of man are ours; and more, his day-dreams have become our
clear realities. Therein lies our hope and sure faith.

As I stand in the sunshine of a sincere and earnest optimism, my
imagination “paints yet more glorious triumphs on the cloud-curtain of
the future.” Out of the fierce struggle and turmoil of contending
systems and powers I see a brighter spiritual era slowly emerge--an
era in which there shall be no England, no France, no Germany, no
America, no this people or that, but one family, the human race; one
law, peace; one need, harmony; one means, labor; one taskmaster, God.

If I should try to say anew the creed of the optimist, I should say
something like this: “I believe in God, I believe in man, I believe in
the power of the spirit. I believe it is a sacred duty to encourage
ourselves and others; to hold the tongue from any unhappy word against
God’s world, because no man has any right to complain of a universe
which God made good, and which thousands of men have striven to keep
good. I believe we should so act that we may draw nearer and more near
the age when no man shall live at his ease while another suffers.”
These are the articles of my faith, and there is yet another on which
all depends--to bear this faith above every tempest which overfloods
it, and to make it a principle in disaster and through affliction.
Optimism is the harmony between man’s spirit and the spirit of God
pronouncing His works good.


The End

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Optimism, by Helen Keller

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OPTIMISM ***

***** This file should be named 31622-0.txt or 31622-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/6/2/31622/

Produced by Mark C. Orton, Irma Spehar and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.