the movie begins in the past where a young boy named sam attempts to save celebi from a hunter . 
emerging from the human psyche and showing characteristics of abstract expressionism , minimalism and russian constructivism , graffiti removal has secured its place in the history of modern art while being created by artists who are unconscious of their artistic achievements . 
spurning her mother's insistence that she get on with her life , mary is thrown out of the house , rejected by joe , and expelled from school as she grows larger with child . 
amitabh can't believe the board of directors and his mind is filled with revenge and what better revenge than robbing the bank himself , ironic as it may sound . 
she , among others excentricities , talks to a small rock , gertrude , like if she was alive . 
this gives the girls a fair chance of pulling the wool over their eyes using their sexiness to poach any last vestige of common sense the dons might have had . 
styled after vh1's " behind the music , " this mockumentary profiles the rise and fall of an internet startup , called icevan . com . 
being blue is not his only predicament ; he also lacks the ability to outwardly express his emotions . 
the killer's clues are a perversion of biblical punishments for sins : stoning , burning , decapitation . 
david is a painter with painter's block who takes a job as a waiter to get some inspiration . 
women craved him and men wanted to be him . 
set on an island off the coast of florida , a techno rave party attracts a diverse group of college coeds and a coast guard officer . 
lesson to be learned : never , never mess with " the gay mafia ! " 
the theme of the film simultaneously addresses the similarities between the two factions of law and crime while revealing the similarities between the two brothers . 
they're jewish , they're grandmothers , and they're lesbians . 
but he's neglecting his work , carping at his mom , and behaving badly toward his loyal friend bobbi . 
with all this going on , gerry's estranged wife margaret is worried for her daughter's safety and finds herself another target in the race to find the code . 
valento feels the heat and turns the table : he makes the dupe into one of his own and rubs the da's nose in it . 
saigon , 1952 , a beautiful , exotic , and mysterious city caught in the grips of the vietnamese war of liberation from the french colonial powers . 
deep in the northwest , there is a lone ranch tucked away so purposefully , the only way to find it is by not looking . 
as a young teenager , he finds out who his father is . 
in life , there's silver , and there's lead , says rikki ortega , as he moves to be king of the street in " &#193 ; nglio , " l . a . 's east side . 
all these games of chasing , rejecting and seducing are played out in an economically and spiritually depressed hong kong , without much gusto . 
television made him famous , but his biggest hits happened off screen . 
jordan is a mom who is on a life long search for true faith as she tries to protect her only child from what she believes is injustice . 
'bloody magic' is the story of zack , an eleven year old school boy , who's family is visited by three debt collectors . 
however , jane , wendy's 12-year-old daughter , sees it all as make believe and refuses to believe in the tales . 
called " an elegant documentary " by sundance and " eloquent and deeply moving " by the la times , toyo miyatake : infinite shades of gray is a penetrating portrait of this photographer's search for truth and beauty in a world of impermanence . 
straight up : helicopters in action will take audiences on a series of aerial adventures . 
a lapp woman anni gives a shelter to both of them at her farm . 
it also touches on the encroachment of christianity brought by the missionaries , which is at odds with mepe's tribal and traditional roots . 
a set of grisly murders brings fbi agent will graham ( norton ) out of retirement and puts him in search of an atrocious killer ( fiennes ) who's driven by the image of a painting . 
soon , the team begins to suspect that knowles' main objective is actually to recover the prototype of a dna testing machine called the huxley project , which his company has spent years and millions of dollars developing . 
his mother persuades a renowned entomologist to take them on a trip to the jungle to search for the butterfly , leading to an adventure that will transform their lives . 
with a rare gift for melding subjectivity with biographical facts , m&#225 ; rton brings sabina spielrein back to life , body and soul . 
seeking a mental escape , simone begins to tune into what's happening with the other couples around her . 
the beatle fan is a drama about albert , a psychotic prisoner who is a devoted fan of john lennon and the beatles . 
then , in 1974 , something incredible happened - they fell in love . 
on her deathbed , candice klein accidentally asks the question , " what did i ever do to deserve this ? " 
shot as a " behind-the-scenes " look at how a fictional kung-fu movie is made , the film is basically a movie about the making of a movie . 
before the investigation ends , we've met boyfriends , a drug dealer , alicia's mom , hadley's dad , nurses , doctors , and an orderly . 
but what exactly is good &#38 ; what exactly is evil ? 
the movie takes place in mexico , 2002 ( based on a story from the 1800's ) . 
rainone's love affair with singing sensation kelly mcguire whom he discovered and his near demise by the hands of his own prot&#233 ; g&#233 ; vincent riccola is the juice that fuels this roller coaster ride through two debauchery-filled decades of greed , sex , drugs and rock and roll . 
trapped in a lovers triangle and ruthless game of lust , greed , and betrayal we follow one woman's hypnotic journey to discover her true self . . . 
decent-but-dull dek loves shirley , so much so that he humiliates her by proposing without warning on national television . 
since all her architects are either busy otherwise or too conservative in style , this ambivalent honour falls to numerobis . 
there's a story that goes around the town of darkness falls about her , and she's called the tooth fairy . 
a strange film employing old home movies and newly shot footage in an effort to expose one hungarian family and their mutiple problems from the 1940s to current . 
matsumoto and sawako were a happy couple , but meddling parents and chase for success push the boy to a tragic choice . 
elvis teams up with jack ( ossie davis ) , a fellow nursing home resident who thinks that he is actually president john f . kennedy , and the two valiant old codgers sally forth to battle an evil egyptian entity who has chosen their long-term care facility as his happy hunting grounds . 
everywhere he goes he is plagued by cats and when by chance he meets carol on a lonely highway they must begin a journey , avoiding the mysterious private detective mr barlow and the terrifying inhuman creature jack , to uncover the dark truth to charlie's life . 
used to living in poverty , it seemed impossible for cass and cary to have a comfortable and bountiful life until doqa gracia comes to bring them into her home . 
the story of a normal family in which come out the dreams of those who have lost their possibilities and of those who want to realize them . 
with grit and determination molly guides the girls on an epic journey , one step ahead of the authorities , over 1 , 500 miles of australia's outback in search of the rabbit-proof fence that bisects the continent and will lead them home . 
they nevertherless feel responsible to protect the flag until monday's ceremony . 
the doctor realizes it''s a love virus so he advises him to woo the girl somehow , not realizing that munnabhai has fallen for none other than his own younger sister komal . 
however , he can only inhabit the body of a child for a short time . 
years later , on a hunting trip in the maine woods , they are overtaken by a blizzard , a vicious storm in which something much more ominous moves . 
consequently , what begins as an enthusiastic road trip is soon plagued with mysterious roadside obstacles that threaten to prevent the boys from ever making it to the competition . 
when she gets into trouble with the police simon represses his death wish and decides to help her out . 
chon then travels to new york for roy o'bannon ( owen wilson ) . 
not only must they overcome an enemy adept at technological witchery , they must overcome the curse that marks their destiny . 
their life becomes less ordinary when they encounter herb , a mischievous and malevolent geek . 
they call themselves d . e . b . s . 
the story starts with hakimi , a freelance scriptwriter who is on his way to send his 7-year-old daughter , imelda , to his ex-wife's house on one stormy night . 
they follow leads , informants turn up dead , nick's wife is unhappy he's back on the street , henry's protective of the dead cop's wife . 
the second part of aki kaurism&#228 ; ki's " finland " trilogy , the film follows a man who arrives in helsinki and gets beaten up so severely he develops amnesia . 
soon after the accident , the survivors of the accident start dropping like flies . 
edgar becomes intent on laying down some new rules and turning his coddled son into someone who can take on the family farm . 
bound by a long red cord , a young couple wanders in search of something they have forgotten . 
sudden fame does not seem to solve everything , however . 
with no option , joe and katsuragi must use their martial arts skills to fight in the muscle dome . 
drawing from his time with the kids , he writes a story about children who don't want to grow up . 
she's an artist , but hasn't picked up a brush in a year . 
when his daughter is kidnapped and held in exchange for priceless diamonds , the leader of a crew of highly skilled urban thieves ( dmx ) forges an unlikely alliance with a taiwanese intelligence officer ( jet li ) to rescue her . 
 " garmento " tells the other side of the story , with a dark and satirical look at new york's wholesale garment industry , where shady deals are made for a buck and ruthlessness is a prerequisite for career success . 
rudy yellowshirt is an investigator with the police department and witnesses firsthand the painful legacy of indian existence . 
journeying from the vietnam war to pulaski , tennessee and back to vietnam , daughter from danang tensely unfolds as cultural differences and the years of separation take their toll in a riveting film about longing and the personal legacy of war . 
each weekend they come back with nothing but a hangover . 
robert de niro plays a therapist who is an obsessive-compulsive agoraphobic and hasn't left his apartment in six years . 
with his own group , the urban cyber breakers , he has got a dream : to win the dance battle that will bring his team to the world final in new york before reaching usa and fame , he has to overcome the rival group , the ld , to deal with his mother's excessive love and to live out his passion for the beautiful samia . 
graced with the instinctive ability to dance , jenny thomas wants nothing more than to become a professional dancer . 
genetically engineered to be immune to the drug , miles' strange charisma draws claire to him , but when he brutally guns down a group of harmless dissidents , she begins to doubt she can really trust anyone . 
palm springs' white party is the backdrop for this documentary on the fast-paced world of gay circuit parties . 
a few questionable actions later on both parties' part , they finally start questioning their actions and their lives . 
ramu stands in and repeats the wisdom of sharonna , freeing the mind of the posh guests and attracting lexi to him . 
anna is the jewish daughter of a spanish mother and a greek father . 
believing his parent's dead , bruce is raised by adoptive parents . 
identified as deserters , they are returned to their barracks to be court martialed . 
frances decides to take a break and she buys a villa in the beautiful tuscan countryside and decides to begin anew . 
set in the los angeles police department in april 1992 , dark blue is a dramatic thriller that takes place just days before the acquittal of four white officers in the beating of black motorist rodney king and the subsequent l . a . riots . 
during this time he becomes wracked by horrific and surreal visions that begin to fuel his work . 
the face of the serpent is an action-thriller with strong political undertones of local government corruption . 
he resurfaces as a hired snoop for , earth now , a radical ecology group . 
surrounded by a bevy of adoring but completely wrong for her men ( and one dead girl from manchester ) , chance has to pick her way through her messy life in order to figure out which guy is " it " . 
upon discovering her infidelity , roxie's husband amos refuses to take the blame for the murder and roxie is sent to jail , pending hanging . 
initially reluctant to help , daniel's conscience eventually gets the better of him . 
his plans go awry , however , when his older brother , keith , returns from prison . 
inspired and motivated , the kids save the day , showing bravery and nobility . 
however he's cauught by the mexican secret police and is forced to infiltrate a gruop political activist in the movement of 68 . 
arjun ( akshay kumar ) is a high profile vigilante who soon encounters a problem when his mother ( raakhee ) becomes terribly ill . 
ronnie must then deal with his new life , while having to deal with missing his ex-wife that he left back home . 
chuck - the songwriting leader of the po'boys , is discouraged and facing writer's block . 
chomsky places the terrorist attacks in the context of american foreign intervention throughout the postwar decades--in vietnam , central america , the middle east , and elsewhere . 
she quickly makes friends with paul taylor , a witty mormon student filmmaker who finds jenny's ambitious dream to be the subject for his next film project . 
one of the friends is a dress designer and provides him the artist's clothes and imported cars are provided to him to enjoy life . 
three friends get together and bury a box making a pact to open it at midnight at their high school graduation . 
fearful of the repercussions on his already messed up life , greg flees the scene and manages to hide his clunky damaged truck on the nearby overgrown farm of martha thompson , an aging grouchy widow who lives by the scriptures , ideas of traditional family and her trusty shotgun . 
but her husband always has prevented her realization of this fact . 
today marks a special anniversary for the couple and they set out to celebrate the way they have before , with an old fashion picnic . 
the next morning , their friday gets freaky when tess and anna find themselves inside the wrong bodies . 
the boy gets a shock when he comes to know that the job involves spying sharad's wife . 
in the surroundings of the bookstore , a lot of criminal , but also funny activities take place . 
blade's team and the bloodpack are the only line of defense which can prevent the reaper population from wiping out the vampire and human populations . 
after letting his screenwriting software sit on his shelf for three years , he finally has the big idea that inspires him to load screenwriter 4 . 0 and get writing . 
when the gammasphere goes wrong , bruce banner is afflicted with the ability to turn into a mammoth creature soon dubbed 'the hulk' , a manifestation of his own inner demons that he mutates into when it is emotionally triggered . 
renata is a young high-class girl and ulises is a poor guy . 
amaro soon discovers that corruption and the church are old acquaintances in los reyes . 
in the end , debby , beth , and virginia find , if not the relationships of their dreams , peace with each other and within themselves . 
he is in search for his salvation and his son salvation from a family curse . 
all are endeavoring to remove the stones that insistently appear in their path or , worst , that are in their shoes . 
renowned adventurer allan quatermain ( connery ) leads a team of extraordinary figures with legendary powers to battle the technological terror of a madman known as " the fantom . " 
but for trey segal , that dream comes at a cost . 
the sequel to spy kids ; the second film revisits the adventures of the previous film . 
johnny lever ( paaji ) is a millionaire sardarji who believes in distributing &#38 ; spending lavishly his wealth on his friends . 
during the year 2000 geyrhalter and his teams travelled to a different destination each month , looking for places untouched by the millennium hysteria . 
kannas brother ghisu is one aggressive and hot-tempered with who is illiterate and is slowly getting attracted towards naxalites . 
her loving parents feel helpless as they watch their daughter suffer . 
area k is an israeli controlled marine zone isolating the gaza strip and preventing palestinian fishermen from entering israel , egypt and international waters . 
while other kids buy into countless hours of studying just so they can get a mark in some teacher's report book , handsome davis sees it as nothing more than a system of control over your mind . 
frank's newest transport seems no different from the countless ones he's done in the past . 
they are told the story of the chamber of secrets . 
but grace has a secret and it is a dangerous one . 
the nameless protagonist , a 19th-century french diplomat , guides the audience through a lost , sumptuous dream that was the enlightenment period . 
but there is indie rock , a restless entrepreneurial spirit , and carly , morgan and chuck , three optimistic post college grads , ready to make their splash in the world . 
a document about a unique political and artistic moment , the film traces the links between the two most important latin american filmmaking movements of the late '60s the brazilian cinema n&#244 ; vo and the cuban cine revolucionario . 
in the cutthroat world of children's television , rainbow randolph , the corrupt , costumed star of a popular children's tv show , is fired over a bribery scandal and replaced by squeaky-clean smoochy , a puffy fuscia rhinoceros . 
two friends purchase a winning lottery ticket , only to have it stolen by a woman while she is robbing the cafe in which they are having lunch . 
carlton " niche " james ( cory barlog ) is a man on a mission . 
together , they must battle a band of the world's most treacherous pirates , led by the cursed captain barbossa , in order to save elizabeth , the love of will's life , as well as recover the lost treasure that jack seeks . 
in this bittersweet slice of working class single new jersey life , best friends debby and beth ( both pushing thirty ) go looking for love in the wrong place - namely their favorite bar , oliver's . 
although their characters and temperaments couldn't be less alike , 19-year olds wei and jie are best friends . 
the body bears strange marks on the chest which may or may not be the sign of a sin eater ( furmann ) , a renegade who offers absolution , last rites and therefore a path to heaven outside the jurisdiction of the church . 
this romantic comedy , described as an african-american when harry met sally . . . , centers on a romance between an a&#38 ; r exec , dre ( diggs ) , at a hip-hop label and a magazine editor , sidney ( lathan ) , who have known each other since childhood . 
matt , a city boy , island hopping to take in the festival of fire , hears that she has been tricked ; for jake is not dying . 
a martial artist , afflicted with a disease that makes beautiful women want to kill him , goes on a suicide mission to find true love anyway . 
there's only one catch : martin , her ex-husband , still hasn't moved out of the place . 
the companies' ceos and attorneys are summoned to a final round of mediation , at an off-shore location . 
sid , a sloth who never stops talking is left behind sleeping while everyone else begins the journey to the south . 
he tries to ignor it , but he later finds out on the news that the daughter of a senator has been kidnapped and is being help ransom for $15m . 
the family come from a long line of masters of disguise who are able to mask themselves as almost anyone or anything by harnessing the great power of energico . 
a film so terrifying - even the monsters are frightened ! 
what he finds is a pocket of life that seems to be in another era , where prejudice and intolerance are accepted , where the small minds of angry men call the shots and where one woman attempts to save him and fails . 
love , politics and intrigue intermingle in this taut retelling of graham greene's classic tale of a disillusioned british journalist , an idealistic young american and the beautiful vietnamese woman that comes between them in 1950s saigon . 
thus when he surprisingly gets an email from american film producer alex brubeck who writes that he had liked the script and would like to meet him personally , tam&#225 ; s sees all his dreams come true . 
3 beautiful agents try to find the treasure , but they must fight the evil datuk azmi , an old enemy of madame x . it has been four years since the alien-seeking agents averted an intergalactic disaster of epic proportions . 
ethan , a confident young architect and seeming 'perfect guy' has invested himself , and his heart , in women like rachel before - and he is sure he has learned his lesson . 
a close acquaintance overhears their conversation , and , promised a fee , reports the win to max ( david winburn ) , smooth-talking but deadly leader of a hoodlum gang , who sends his beautiful paramour , cindy ( kelly taylor ) , to seduce jose , if necessary , to get her hands on the winning ticket . 
when all but one of mi5's top agents are killed in an explosion . 
jack has a history with charlie , a transient who portrays a typical image of the homeless : rough , unshaven and always looking for the next drink . 
fourth generation war hero col . william mcnamara is imprisoned in a brutal german pow camp . 
oscar is certain that he could be a better mate to eve than his work-obsessed father . 
at the same time , scientist and businessman norman osborn , after exposure to an experimental nerve gas , develops an alternate personality himself ; the super-strong , psychotic green goblin ! 
from her complex and enduring relationship with her mentor and husband to her illicit and controversial affair with leon trotsky , to her provocative and romantic entanglements with women , frida kahlo lived a bold and uncompromising life as a political , artistic , and sexual revolutionary . 
there's ushi , harry's lawyer , who knows something about harry lena doesn't know , eddie , a friend of harry and his new girlfriend pol , and at last , there are two policemen who are in fact unwelcome . 
america's best player is being pulled in to the ultimate cyber-terror . 
besides him , the other residents are " baggers , " human-like creatures that are infected by the tall man's blood , the dwarves , and , of course , the silver spheres , all trying to break out of the barrier that contains them and into the real world . 
but nobody figured sam decker and his juvenile delinquents into the equation . 
the film captures intense footage of several art events as well as interviews with burning man organizers larry harvey ( also co-founder ) , crimson rose and will roger who explain how , what started in 1986 as an impromptu summer solstice celebration , put on by a few friends at a beach in san francisco , has turned into a full-blown exercise in city planning and management with a hefty price-tag . 
chon's sister , lin ( wong ) , also thirsty for vengeance , stumbles into what appears to be a conspiracy to off the royal family . 
a young father amaro arrives at his new church post on the orders of the bishop . 
amelia is quickly following into the footsteps of her mother , sanjuanera , who has been engaged in a long-time affair with father benito . 
ivan , a captain of the soviet army , arrested by the front secret police 'smersh' , has a narrow escape . 
they follow him to las vegas , where he is ostensibly doing " research " for the next season , but is actually pursuing a dream to become a dancer in a vegas show . 
whistle completes the trilogy started in from here to eternity and the thin red line . 
they gradually find themselves drawn to each other but , as their remarkable story plays out , the obstacles to their happiness prove all but insurmountable . 
there he encounters dawn's family who tie him down and put him on trail for the murder of the girl years before . 
but all is not smooth in the rockies , as their relationship accelerates - cultural differences , family issues , former loves and life-altering challenges threaten to shake things up . 
documentarians weissman and weber have expertly crafted a record of a wondrous time and a wild group in the cockettes , and you won't want to miss a minute of it . 
a banker , husband , and father , mr . smith ( larry pine ) must leave it behind him . 
before they carry this out , they want to truly experience life on the edge and they devise a plan by which their suicides will make them legends . 
one of patricia's early followers is francis hiller ( edward albert jr . ) , jack's son and katherine's stepbrother , a successful local businessman . 
but harper himself is a suspect in several bomb attacks , one of which killed rachel's partner and friend . 
in a fantasy life she lives through her sketchbook , laura's world is exotic , bright and enchanting . 
kilo decides to learn how to prosper in the drug world and his new life as a dealer begins . 
he has had no formal education , but on his own , he systematically studies western theories of industrial management and such classical chinese philosophies as confucianism , taoism , and suntzu . 
in addition , the detective has to deal with a serial killer who had already killed and mutilated many women . 
at times he seems to share nicholas's fascination , but then appears more interested in making inroads with the girls at school . 
but there are some surprises on the way . . . 
the sra's act as 'portals' on the internet , helping users to fulfill their dreams . 
they discover a little bit about love , dating and each other as the search through the thousands of hopefuls . 
a zany comedy where as pop is dying he is pushing his remaining son to fulfill his last request ; to marry and carry on the family name . 
his father and brother are dead for so many years . 
as the girls begin to bond , laura gradually begins to find herself abandoning the safety of the fantasy and falling into her first real friendship . 
unwilling to disappoint his proud mother , morales wastes no time in looking for a job to pay his way through school . 
the land has been in the grip of a ravaging drought for 10 years . 
the story follows them and the people they encounter on their way to their destination . 
the movie revolves around munnabhai ( sanjay dutt ) a dreaded but good-hearted underworld don of mumbai . 
she calls on a fairy godmother to grants her three wishes . 