his small , mobile party , the congolese national movement ( mnc ) is gaining prominence and patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer , and get his face known , in the bustling capital , stanleyville . 
at a time when the colonial empires are falling down around the world , lumumba is in the right place at the right time and , through political savvy and chess-like manipulation , achieves a position of leadership of the mnc . 
as the date for independence approaches , he tactically positions himself to be the new nation's first prime minister and defense minister , supporting the presidency of joseph kasa vubu ( maka kotto ) . 
the coalition he created soon starts to fall apart as the former belgian masters continue to exert influence on the struggling nation as they strive to maintain economic hold on the country's vast natural resources of copper , diamonds , gold and more . 
lumumba won't seek the help of the us , knowing that they would try to create de facto american control of the fledgling government . 
his initial investigation into soviet assistance immediately tags patrice as a communist and his integrity is overshadowed by the cold war threat of russian domination . 
the situation goes from bad to worse as the army mutinies , the remaining whites begin to evacuate or arm themselves , belgian troops violently intervene , the lucrative katanga province succeeds under the leadership of rival moise tschombe ( pascal nzonzi ) and lumumba is refused access to his own country when he returns from a conference abroad . 
this tumultuous and little known period of modern african history saw a score of nations struggling for independence from the sometimes-odious colonialists who have ruled much of the world from their european seats of power for centuries . 
peck focuses his story on familiar material that strives to give an honest portrayal of patrice lumumba , his friend and foes and the independence movements that gripped africa in the 50's and 60's . 
 ( during the time the story takes place , many new nations , including nigeria and somalia , were born , with varying degrees of success and failure , usually dependent upon which country colonized them . 
some colonial masters were better than others . ) 
the effort involved in " lumumba " is quite ambitious as peck and his crew before and behind the camera strive to bring to life this slice of world history that might have gone unexplored for decades , if at all . 
production values are first rate on what must be a small , by us standards , budget . 
the period feel and realistic african settings are nicely maintained in a production that traveled from zimbabwe to mozambique . 
the screenplay covers a lot of ground and does yeoman's work in providing a great deal of detailed history while trying to do justice to the story of lumumba's life . 
the political side of things is evenly told in a linear , straightforward manner that teaches , not preaches . 
it concentrates on the good deeds of the man , if a bit as a stalwart saint , but doesn't embellish on a larger than life persona . 
the family side of patrice's life is handled in several , perfunctory and brief interludes that show him talking to one of his children , embracing his wife or lamenting the death of his child . 
i know the intent is to flesh the man out , but too short a shrift is given to the family man side of lumumba . 
the story , as such , has a lopsided feel about it . 
high marks go to eriq ebouaney as the title character . 
the actor gives a convincing , charismatic performance as the multifaceted , politically deft patrice lumumba who has the good of his people and his country as the force driving his own ambitions . 
in true docudrama tradition , the supporting cast does not outshine the star , complementing his good efforts , instead . 
 " lumumba " is a solid , interesting , educational and honest docudrama that should appeal to film buffs and politicos , both . 
it has more intelligence in its telling than anything i've seen out of hollywood for months and i give it a b+ . 
apparently , director tony kaye had a major battle with new line regarding his new film , american history x . i don't know the details of the fight , but it seems that he is not happy with the final product , and nearly removed his name from the credits altogether . 
i've heard about this kind of thing happening before , and it makes me wonder how much input a studio has over the films they produce . 
as it is , i found american history x to be an extremely good film , not just because of tony kaye's focused look at the touchy subject of racism , but because of a powerful , charismatic performance from edward norton . 
it's hard to believe that it has only been two years since norton's fantastic role in primal fear , but , here he is now , starring in his own film and making himself a star . 
norton is one of those performers who becomes his character , and his work in american history x is one of the very best performances this year . 
he plays a young man named derek vinyard , a skinhead living in venice beach with his brother , danny ( edward furlong ) , mother ( beverly d'angelo ) , and sister , davin ( jennifer lien ) . 
the film opens with a flashback , in which derek brutally kills two black men vandalizing his car . 
we find out that this lands him in prison , and the film from that point is seen through the eyes of danny . 
in the present-time of the film , danny is in high school , and eager to follow the footsteps of his brother . 
much of the film is told in flashback , and we see the path that leads to derek's adoption of white supremacy . 
when derek is released , having served three years in prison , he finds that his brother is now a full-blown skinhead ; derek , however , has given up the violence , and tries to get his brother to understand why racism and the violence that comes with it are bad things . 
what makes this all interesting is that these two young men are not stupid , thoughtless people -- they are intelligent and articulate , and voice their beliefs in disturbingly straightforward terms . 
it's hard to make a controversial movie and not preach , but kaye has found the right note for his material . 
because american history x is a mainstream film , there has to be a redemption phase for our main character -- some people may think that this is the only way to make him sympathetic . 
i partially disagree with this , because , although i do not advocate racism in any way , it's interesting the way kaye presents derek -- he is a loud , obnoxious man , but he's also very smart . 
the reasons for why he becomes a skinhead are believable -- his father was arbitrarily killed by a group of black men . 
it's clear that he's passionate about his beliefs , and that he's not just a punk looking for an excuse to beat people up . 
of course , it helps that kaye has an actor as talented as norton to play this part . 
it's astonishing how frightening norton looks with a shaved head and a swastika on his chest . 